FTC-Workshop-Sample
===================
This code is from the workshop I did at Robocon on RobotC. 
all the code is made to run on the Virtual Worlds Convayorbot but could be modified to work on any robot.

Things to keep in mind: 
----
* The forward and backward methods don't use nMotorEncoderTarget only because that method does not work in VirtualWorlds, outside of virtual worlds i would recommend using nMotorEncoderTarget
* Rotation with the gyro works differently than it did in previous years. It seems that the gyro calculates rotation relative to the position it started at (or was reset from). This means that you do not have to calculate and add the differance like we had to last time, SensorValue[gyro] will return degrees, not degrees per second.
* if you perfect the autonomous functions and motions first (meaning when you tell the robot to turn 90 degrees, it turns exactly 90 degrees), this will make writing the actual autonomous programs much easier and much faster.
* Write lots of autonomous programs: after the core functions have been completed, it is tempting to write the largest and highest scoring autonomous program first. Don't do it though. start with the easiest and shortest program first (ex. parking the robot on the bridge and stopping). The smallest programs could written and perfected within a few minutes. Consider every task you would want your largest program to do, and write smaller programs to accomplish these tasks first. After you have written these smaller programs, writing larger programs many times is just a matter of stringing the smaller programs together. When you are finished, you will have a program for almost any situation that could possibly happen on the field.
* Write redundent programs: Things break, robots block you, stuff happens. There are some cases when using the IR beacon to place a block might not work because of other robots on the field, or a faulty sensor. in such cases, it is very usefull to have alternate programs that don't use certain sensors (maybe a program that places a block in a specific basket instead of the one with the ir beacon). there is also always the case where you will be allied with a team that has only one autonomous program and it conflicts with your most reliable program, this is why it is always usefull to have more than one approach to the same problem. if you can think of two ways to accomplish the same task, and you have time, Choose both.
* Make sure your field is accurate. if you only have half a field, thats ok. Just make sure that the half that you do have is as close to the real field measurements as you can get. the competition field can't be off by more than an inch, so as long as the autonomous program can handle atleast an inch of inacuracy, you should be good.

writing so many autonomous programs might seem like it should take weeks. It won't. with good reliable autonomous functions, writing 4 to 8 simple autonomous programs shouldn't take more than 2 hours. writing a single long program on its own could take an entire day, however if you've taken the time to write all the smaller programs, writing the larger ones won't take more than another couple hours to finish and tune.
